Each of the following categories was rated on a scale from 1 to 7 with 1
being on the low end and 7 being on the high end.

Originality: 	4
It is a known issue and the authors are not proposing a completely new
solution.

Significance: 	5
It is an issue of importance to the whole grid generation community. But
in this paper this issue is addressed with reference to a small group
connected to the authors.

Relevance to the IMR: 	6
The paper is dealing with mesh interface that is very much relevant to IMR.

Technical Quality: 	4
The paper is verbose with not much of technical details.

Presentation: 	4
They can present more of the basic concepts and less of trivial details.
For example, they can give lists of important entities and functions in
terms of the SIDL langugae.

Overall Rating: 	4
The overall rating can be increased to 6 if they improve the technical
quality and presentation of the paper.


Reviewer's Expertise on Topic: 	high
Amount of Rewriting Required: 	medium


Comments to the Authors

Main Contributions

The main contribution of the paper is the attempt at describing a
language- and data-structure-independent interface supporting query and
modification of mesh data. It is an issue of importance to the whole
grid generation community. But in this paper this issue is addressed
with reference to a small group connected to the authors.

Another important contribution is the use of SIDL language. But they
have not given descriptions of the entities and functions using this
language.

Positive Aspects

Positive aspect of the paper are (a) conceptualizing data model in terms
of mesh entities, entity adjacencies, meshes, entity sets, and tags; (b)
abstractions of some functionalities of the mesh interface, such as
global queries and mesh modification.

Negative Aspects

1. The paper does not present the conceptual design of the interface. It
does not explicitly mention the important entities that the interface is
dealing with and does not contain a list of query and modification
functions. Instead, the paper gives general descriptions that is verbose
and does not contain technical details.

2. Some of the functionalities, such as, grid quality and grid
interpolation are not brought out.

Further Comments

1. The paper is addressing the issue of mesh interface for query and
modification. It is not addressing the issue of standard interface for
mesh generation. This point should be explicitly mentioned.

2. It should compare/contrast with the work done by others related to
grid generation standards such as unstructured grid consortium.

3. Reduce some of the descriptions on Entity sets and tags.

4. Explain why a new language SIDL is used instead of the existing
languages like XML.

